>> Will Sentance: We were saying that,
in fact, we got a whole number of built in
functions available to all our arrays
in JavaScript, higher order functions.
Each of them iterate, loop through,
an array that has access to them right
here a dot filter, what's gonna be 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 dot filter.
And then runs some sort of function.
Look, there it is, greater than 2.
Which is gonna take in a number and return
the evaluated result of whether that
number is greater or less than 2, true or
false, and then does something else.
They all behave differently.
Our job is to go to MDN
to figure that out.
We're gonna see one more
here called filter.
Then we're gonna see something called
chaining, high order functions.
I don't think it's the most functional
programming style of writing code.
But we're gonna see is actually the way
that often people do do it in JavaScript.
But then after that, by which time
we'll have reinvigorated because of
course now we've all just eaten lunch.
But by then, will be reinvigorated
to see the functional programming
style of writing clean compartmentalized
little baby tiny functions and
lining them up one by one by one, do that
one, then do that one, then do that one.
Composing little baby
functions into bigger tasks,
just like we compose little baby
motifs in music into larger melodies.
>> Will Sentance: It's got
the sender's resume the end somewhere.
The toner,
there's gonna be end of the sentence.
There you go.
Good.
>> Alex: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: All right, here we go.
So let's actually start off the way
that JavaScript behind the scenes.
As soon as you turn JavaScript on, it
opens up its memory, it's store of data.
And into and actually behind the scenes,
it sticks that,
let's put it here,
that object full of functions
that are built in and
available to all arrays.
So we had reduce in there, we had filter.
In there, we had map.
In there, we had for each is another.
There's a whole bunch of them.
I think I listed them all out there,
right?
You got like flat map and
other ones as well.
Okay, they're all available to all arrays.
Well, let's get going.
Line one, what is the array we're
declaring right here, Alex?
>> Alex: What is the actual value of it?
>> Will Sentance: Just to tell
me what doing in line one here.
>> Alex: We're putting
a constant labeled array.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Alex: To memory,
the value is an array of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
>> Will Sentance: Lovely,
I like that clarity of technical
communication as well Alex, thank you.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
There it is.
Okay, then, next line, David.
>> David: We are declaring
a const of greater than 2.
>> Will Sentance: Const is our function.
>> Will Sentance: [LAUGH] Look at that.
I converted f into greater than 2 and
it's a regular old function.
I really stressed David don't
even say it's just a function.
It's a function.
It's a function that takes in nom and
returns out the evaluated result
yeah Boolean a true false whether
nom is greater or less than 2.
So it's run with a 3,
it will return out true.
If it's run with a 1,
it will return out false.
Okay, now, final line, Virginia.
>> Virginia: So we have-
>> Will Sentance: Left hand side?
>> Virginia: Yes, a label filtered array.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect, great.
And the right hand side
says to go do what?
>> Virginia: Execute
something on that array.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and
the thing we're gonna execute is?
>> Virginia: Greater than 2 filter.
>> Will Sentance: Filter, filter, filter,
definitely not greater
than 2 we may not use it.
>> Virginia: Filter with the reducer.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, not reducer.
The reducer is specifically the function
we take into reduce who takes each element
of the array of reduce and accumulates
it and combines it to get an output,
which is then combined using
the reducer with an excellent.
We'll see it again and again, don't worry.
Yeah, so the court exactly the focus
has been pausing the callback, okay.
All right, so filtered.
>> Will Sentance: This is a very,
very typical and usable function.
I'm not going to go into
massive detail of it,
we're not actually going to show it for
an execution context.
I'm going to give you a kind of truncated
version of its execution context.
There it is with the input of the entire
greater than to functionality.
There it is takes in, nom returns out,
no greater than two functionality.
You know what actually I'm going to
evaluate the array piece here and
put it straight in as, but
it's 3ds in as what it's going to.
Actually be so
it's slightly easier to see.
It's going to be 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6 dot filter, wow.
That is, that is not good is it?
That does not look good for
the long term for the long haul.
Let's get rid of that,
was if you rub really,
really hard, side yeah, indeed.
All right, so
let's head over here filtered,
array will be the evaluated result of
calling on array which
is 1,2,3,4,5,6 filter.
The method filter.
How to get access to that filter method?
Well that array has a bond
through its object version,
let's not get too bogged down in
this through its proto property.
To what?
So what Michael?
>> Michael: To the prototype?
>> Will Sentance: Yes shorter to
the object full of functions here that we
get access to.
So when we do 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 dot filter,
we go and look at the array,
the object bit of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
And it's going to link down to a list of
functions we can use when we find filter.
Let's grab it and use it.
Let's create.
Yes, it does create an execution context.
Here it is.
I'm not going to talk about
what's in his local memory.
I'm just going to talk more generally
the first thing filter does folk I'm just
gonna tell you what it does we
go with MDN to figure this out.
The first thing it does inside is create
what what do you think the first thing it
does anyone gets I guess Sam?
David?
Grayson?
>> Alex: Empty array.
>> Will Sentance: Right.
Empty array, right good job exactly
create an empty array into which
we're going to stick anything It
then runs this function greater than
two on the zeroth element, then the oneth
element and the two way through.
And it takes in that element and passes it
into the execution context of greater than
to the function we passed in with numbers
a parameter which will be one, and
then asked one is greater than two
false and returns that falls out and
moves on from that element.